New non-UK pages (#4011)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student.md

description: |-
  Find out how to train to teach in England as a student from outside the UK. Get help and guidance on your qualifications, funding and visa.
related_content:

>     Gain the equivalent of English QTS, from outside the UK : "/non-uk-teachers/international-qualified-teacher-status"

Reviewer: Will this page act as the landing page for this section? If so, will the URL change? The URL says international student but the page says non-UK citizen

Reviewer 2: We've deliberately not changed the URL yet - we wanted a quicker win of changing the title/h1 whilst we reviewed the outcomes of UR re international signposting

Would suggest that we leave the URL for now and review separately as this will involve redirects, a lot of inbound links and tracking!

---

Citizens of every country in the world can apply to train to teach in England.

When you have successfully completed your training, you will be awarded English [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/train-to-be-a-teacher/what-is-qts), a professional qualification valued globally.

QTS will allow you to apply for teaching jobs in all schools in England. When you get a teaching job, depending on your immigration status, you may also need to [apply for a visa allowing you to work in the UK](/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-teachers).   

### Meet non-UK citizens who trained to teach in England

> Read a [transcript of this video](/non-uk-teachers/why-train-to-teach-in-england-video-transcript).

Reviewer 2: Would suggest this is a bit more descriptive for screen reader users - previously we had:

[Read the transcript for the 'Why train to teach in England?' video]

Reviewer 2: The transcript should also come below the video

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/WhBBL_DpHFo?si=_TAmdD4kgpPewADA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer 2: This is causing a build error as this is not how we embed videos - see https://github.com/DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app/blob/master/docs/content.md#youtube-video for guidance on how to do this (or look at the SKE page etc)

- international candidates can expect to pay an average of about £15,000 to train, plus living costs
- depending on your immigration status and the subject you train to teach, you may get some financial support
- training lasts one academic year full-time, or longer part-time
- you can apply for paid teaching jobs as soon as you successfully complete your training and gain English qualified teacher status (QTS)
- you'll earn at least £30,000 a year (or more in London) when you qualify as a teacher 
- you may need to extend or switch your visa to live and work in the UK long-term

## 1. Check your qualifications

Before you apply, you must [check your qualifications](/non-uk-teachers/non-uk-qualifications). If you gained your qualifications outside the UK, we can help you check if they meet the required standard in England. 

To get help with your qualifications, you can use the live chat service at the bottom of this page. Or you can call us on +44 800 389 2500. Calls will be charged at your country's standard rate.

We're available Monday to Friday between 8:30am and 5:30pm (UK local time) except on [bank holidays](https://www.gov.uk/bank-holidays) in England. 

> When you speak to us, we can also tell you if you're eligible for a [teacher training adviser](/teacher-training-advisers). 

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove this link - we want people ringing us to check their eligibility, not going through the form on the TTA page.

If needed, we could add a sentence to describe what TTAs can help with?

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by this... presumably the TTAs will tell them if they're eligible for a TTA before giving them advice on qualifications?

## 2. Find out about fees and financial support

Teacher training fees for non-UK candidates vary between training providers.

Fees cost an average of £15,000, with some over £30,000.

You’ll also have to cover your living costs.

If you're planning on training to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for a bursary or scholarship worth up to £30,000. 

[Learn more about fees and funding for non-UK trainees](/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).

## 3. Find and apply for teacher training courses

If you’re applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, the process may be different to that for UK citizens.

> Learn more and [read our tips on making an application to increase your chances of success](/non-uk-teachers/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training-as-a-non-uk-citizen).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more and [read our tips on making a successful application for teacher training as a non-UK citizen](/non-uk-teachers/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training-as-a-non-uk-citizen).
```

## 4. Apply for your visa

To train to teach in England, you will need a visa or immigration status allowing you to study (or work, for salaried courses) in the UK. 

You can apply for your visa once you have a confirmed offer of a training place. 

[Learn more about applying for the right visa for your teacher training course](/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-trainees).

## 5. Plan your move to the UK

> For help with your move, [read our tips on relocation](/non-uk-teachers/plan-your-move-to-the-uk).

Reviewer 2: I don't think this link text is descriptive enough re accessibility?

> For help with your move, [read our tips on relocation](/non-uk-teachers/plan-your-move-to-the-uk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For help with your move, [read our tips on relocating to the UK as a trainee teacher](/non-uk-teachers/plan-your-move-to-the-uk).
```

## 6. Complete your teacher training and gain QTS

> If you’re accepted on to a teacher training course in England, you’ll train for one year (or longer if you’re part-time) to gain [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/train-to-be-a-teacher/what-is-qts).

Reviewer 2: As per other comments, we usually say 9 months elsewhere on the site?

> If you’re accepted on to a teacher training course in England, you’ll train for one year (or longer if you’re part-time) to gain [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/train-to-be-a-teacher/what-is-qts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re accepted on to a teacher training course in England, you’ll usually train for 9 months, or 18 to 24 months if you’re part-time, to gain [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/train-to-be-a-teacher/what-is-qts).
```

## 7. Apply for your first teaching job

When you have qualified teacher status, you will be able to apply for paid teaching jobs in all schools in England. Depending on your immigration status, you may also need to apply for a visa allowing you to work in the UK. 

[How to apply for your first teaching job](/non-uk-teachers/find-a-teaching-job-as-a-non-uk-citizen).

## Meet non-UK citizens who trained to teach in England

$why-train-video$

[Read the transcript for the 'Why train to teach in England?' video](/non-uk-teachers/why-train-to-teach-in-england-video-transcript).

## Contact

> 

Reviewer 2: Again, I would rather remove the link to the TTA page in line 146 - we need people to call us first to check if they are eligible.

---

Citizens of every country in the world can apply to train to teach in England.

When you have successfully completed your training, you will be awarded English [qualified teacher status (QTS)](/train-to-be-a-teacher/what-is-qts), a professional qualification valued globally.

QTS will allow you to apply for teaching jobs in all schools in England. When you get a teaching job, depending on your immigration status, you may also need to [apply for a visa allowing you to work in the UK](/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-teachers).   

> ### Meet non-UK citizens who trained to teach in England

Reviewer: Maybe move this video down to the bottom of the page above contact, unless it's the most important thing on the page

$why-train-video$

[Read the transcript for the 'Why train to teach in England?' video](/non-uk-teachers/why-train-to-teach-in-england-video-transcript).

> ## Useful info

Reviewer: Suggest changing to 'Planning your teacher training'

When you plan your training, bear in mind that:

- international candidates can expect to pay an average of about £15,000 to train, plus living costs
- depending on your immigration status and the subject you train to teach, you may get some financial support
- training lasts one academic year full-time, or longer part-time
- you can apply for paid teaching jobs as soon as you successfully complete your training and gain English qualified teacher status (QTS)
- you'll earn at least £30,000 a year (or more in London) when you qualify as a teacher 
- you may need to extend or switch your visa to live and work in the UK long-term

> ## 1. Check your qualifications

Reviewer: Do these steps need to be done in this order?

Author: yes :)

> Before you apply, you must [check your qualifications](/non-uk-teachers/non-uk-qualifications). If you gained your qualifications outside the UK, we can help you check they meet the required standard in England. 

Reviewer: Should there be an 'if' between check and they?

When you speak to us, we can also tell you if you're eligible for a [teacher training adviser](/teacher-training-advisers). 

## Step 2: find out about fees and financial support

Teacher training fees for non-UK candidates vary between training providers.

Fees cost an average of £15,000, with some over £30,000.

You’ll also have to cover your living costs.

If you're planning on training to teach languages or physics, you could be eligible for a bursary or scholarship worth up to £30,000. 

[Learn more about fees and funding for non-UK trainees](/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).

## Step 3: find and apply for teacher training courses

If you’re applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, the process may be different to that for UK citizens.

> Learn more and [read our tips on making an application to increase your chances of success](/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training-as-a-non-uk-citizen).

Reviewer 3: for some reason the path seems to be case sensitive - change it to: 
`/non-uk-teachers/tips-on-applying-for-teacher-training-as-a-non-UK-citizen`

## Step 4: apply for your visa

To train to teach in England, you will need a visa or immigration status allowing you to study (or work, for salaried courses) in the UK. 

You can apply for your visa once you have a confirmed offer of a training place. 

[Learn more about applying for the right visa for your teacher training course](/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-trainees).

## Step 5: plan your move to the UK

> For help with your move, [read our tips on relocation](/plan-your-move-to-the-uk).

Reviewer 3: change the path to:
`/non-uk-teachers/plan-your-move-to-the-UK`
